# Paw Patrol Tower Project Plan

## Overview

Building an interactive Paw Patrol Tower for engaging play experiences. The project involves a custom-built electronic system using ESP32-WROOM and Raspberry Pi 4, incorporating LEDs, a speaker, and a button interface. The system delivers missions with audio narratives generated by ChatGPT and OpenAI's TTS model.

## API Documentation

### Docker

Copy `.env.template` to `.env` and update the values for the secrets.
Run Docker with `docker run --name paw-patrol-tower -v /your/preferred/application/data/location:/data -p 5000:5000 --env-file .env -d bertoja/paw-patrol-tower:latest`
Replace the paths with your preferred paths. Note that this volume is mapped to the default paths specified in the .env file. If those are changed, make sure to update the volume path as well.

### GET /mission

This endpoint retrieves the latest unrequested mission.

**Method:** `GET`

**URL:** `/mission`

**Response:**

- JSON response containing the latest unrequested mission.

**Example:**

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:5000/mission
```

### GET /mission-audio{mission_id}

This endpoint retrieves the audio file for a specific mission.

**Method:** `GET`

**URL:** `/mission-audio/{mission_id}`

**Parameters:**

- `mission_id` (path parameter): The ID of the mission.

**Response:**

- The audio file for the specified mission if it exists, or a 404 error if not found.

**Example:**

```bash
curl -X GET http://localhost:5000/mission-audio/1
```

---
Please replace localhost:5000 with your actual server address and port.

## Electronics Components

### Core Components

- **ESP32-WROOM**: Main microcontroller.
- **Raspberry Pi 4**: Handles complex tasks and stores missions.
- **Speaker (8ohm)**: For audio output.
- **LEDs**: For visual effects.
- **Push Button**: To trigger missions.
- **USB Power Supply**: Powers the setup.

### Additional Components

- **Resistors**: For LEDs and button.
- **Wires and Breadboard**: For prototyping.
- **Soldering Materials**: For permanent connections.

## Electronics Plan

1. **Circuit Design**:

   - Integrate the push button with ESP32.
   - Connect LEDs to ESP32 with resistors.
   - Set up the speaker for audio output with ESP32.

2. **Safety and Durability**:

   - Secure all connections.
   - Enclose electronics in a child-safe manner.

3. **Power Management**:
   - Ensure USB power supply sufficiency.

## Software Components

### ESP32 Software

- **MicroPython**: Programming environment.
- **GPIO Control**: Manages button and LEDs.
- **Audio Management**: Handles audio file retrieval and playback.

### Raspberry Pi Software

- **Python/Flask API**: Backend server.
- **Mission Management**:
  - Stores missions and metadata in SQLite database.
  - Provides API for mission delivery.

### Integration

- **Network Communication**: Between ESP32 and Raspberry Pi.

## Software Plan

1. **ESP32 Programming**:

   - Code for button interaction and LED control.
   - Implement audio file streaming or retrieval.

2. **Raspberry Pi Setup**:

   - ~~Install Flask.~~
   - ~~Create API for missions~~
   - ~~Set up ChatGPT integration for mission generation.~~
   - ~~Convert text scripts to audio using OpenAI TTS.~~
   - ~~Manage missions and metadata using SQLite.~~
   - ~~Dockerize the application~~
   - Python dependencies:
     - openai
     - flask
     - sqlalchemy
     - gunicorn
   - System dependency:
     - ffmpeg

3. **Integration Testing**:

   - Ensure seamless communication and functionality.

4. **Final Assembly**:
   - Assemble and secure all components post-testing.

## Steps to Follow

1. **Prototype on Breadboard**.
2. **Software Development**:
   - Develop ESP32 and Raspberry Pi code.
   - Test functionalities separately.
3. **Integration Testing**.
4. **Final Assembly and Safety Check**.

## Project Considerations

- **Modularity**: Design for future upgrades.
- **Documentation**: Maintain detailed records of the build.
- **Child Engagement**: Involve child in safe aspects of the project.
